We present "Scene-to-Audio," a novel framework to
convert distant scene images into representative
audio to provide a comprehensible and engaging
experience for blind and low vision people.
Vista scenes, like scenic landscapes,
are essential for leisure and situational
awareness. Experiencing them is important
for one’s cognitive and aesthetic needs. Yet,
these experiences remain inaccessible
to people with visual impairments.
Existing solutions like the app BeMyAI rely
heavily on spoken descriptions. These speech
descriptions often impose a high cognitive
load and they lack immersive qualities
necessary for an enjoyable experience.
In this paper, we proposed a novel framework
called 'Scene-to-Audio' that generates
non-verbal sounds to represent key elements
of distant scenes. It identifies sound-making
objects in the scene and produces
non-verbal audio using a combination
of psycho-acoustics and foley sound synthesis.
Through a listening test with 21
participants we show that the sounds
generated from our framework represent
the scene better than baseline techniques,
with a high scene recognition accuracy
and a high pleasantness rating.
Through a pilot study with blind and low vision
users or BLVs, we co-designed four auditory
feedback strategies to enhance their scene
experience: Speech-only, Audio-only, Overlay, and
Overlay Concat. Here is an example: Speech-only.
Audio-only, which is the non-verbal audio
generated from scene-to-audio framework
Overlay, which is speech overlaid
on non-verbal sounds,
And Overlay concat, which is a
sequential audio representation of different parts
of the scene, along with the corresponding speech.
In a user study with 11 PVI participants, we
compared these sonification strategies. Overlay
audio was preferred the most and rated
to be significantly more immersive, and
engaging than the speech-only audio, while also
being comprehensible and low in cognitive load.
We envision integrating this framework
with existing wearable technologies to
provide engaging and immersive audio
experiences for Vista scenes for BLVs.